Open ASR Leaderboard, new datasets (#3374)
huggingface/blog: open-asr-leaderboard-private-data.md

---
title: "Adding Benchmaxxer Repellant to the Open ASR Leaderboard" 
thumbnail: /blog/assets/open-asr-leaderboard-private-data/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: bezzam
- user: Steveeeeeeen
- user: eustlb
- user: SBruccoleriAppen
  guest: true
  org: AppenAIResearch
- user: jmss-appen
  guest: true
  org: AppenAIResearch
- user: c-e-ford-appen
  guest: true
  org: AppenAIResearch
- user: wgb14
  guest: true
  org: DataoceanAI1
- user: YukaiHuang
  guest: true
  org: DataoceanAI1
- user: like2026
  guest: true
  org: DataoceanAI1
- user: logicbean
  guest: true
  org: DataoceanAI1
- user: ally-lxl
  guest: true
  org: DataoceanAI1
---

# Adding Benchmaxxer Repellant to the Open ASR Leaderboard

*"When a measure becomes a target, it ceases to be a good measure." (Goodhart’s Law)*

**TLDR**: [Appen Inc.](https://huggingface.co/AppenAIResearch) and [DataoceanAI](https://huggingface.co/DataoceanAI1) have provided high-quality English ASR datasets covering scripted and conversational speech over multiple accents. To prevent potential risks of benchmaxxing or test-set contamination, we will keep these datasets private for a high-quality measure of performance on multiple tasks.

> **We’re not updating the average WER at this time**: by default, it will continue to report the WER macroaverage on the public datasets. However, you can opt-in to see the impact of the private datasets by toggling them on 👀

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We’re not updating the average WER at this time**: by default, the leaderboard’s Average WER remains computed on public datasets only. You can optionally include the private datasets using the toggle to see their impact 👀
```
making it a bit less confusing

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/open_asr_leaderboard/dataset_leaderboard.png" width="1024px" alt="thumbnail" />
</div>

## Do models trained on the data providers have an advantage?

They could. We’ve asked Appen and DataoceanAI to not provide this data to their clients. But even if they do not provide this exact data, data from a similar distribution could still help the model on the corresponding evaluation set (similar to benchmaxxing by optimizing for a challenging task from the public sets). To this end, having multiple data providers balances out the advantage a model may get from having used data from one of the providers. And we are open to more data providers and eval sets for the "Private data" tab!

> Moreover, to ensure that the private sets do not affect the model ranking, we’ve defaulted the Average WER **to not include the Private sets in its macro-average.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moreover, to ensure that the private sets do not affect the model ranking, we’ve defaulted the Average WER **to not include the Private sets in its macroaverage.**
```
consistent with "macroaverage"
